Time series data refers to a
collection of data points that
are ordered and arranged in a
sequential manner based on time.
This type of data is
characterized by its unique
features, such as the inherent
sequential nature of the data
points and the presence of
various patterns including
trends, seasonality, and
irregularities.
Time series data is ubiquitous
and spreads across a multitude
of industries.
For example, in the
manufacturing sector, time
series data is utilized for
monitoring and optimizing
production processes,
forecasting equipment
maintenance, and analyzing
supply chain trends.
In transportation and logistics,
it is used to monitor traffic
patterns and optimize delivery
routes of managed fleets.
Intra logistics offers a lot of
potential for optimization.
In the energy sector, time
series data allows for the
prediction of energy demand and
optimization of energy
production.
In monitoring and security
metrics, events and logs can be
collected and analyzed in real
time to correlate them to each
other and automatically detect
failures or intrusions.
Regardless of the industry, time
series data plays a crucial role
in enabling businesses to make
data-driven decisions,
highlighting its importance in
today's data centric world.
What do all of these use cases
have in common When it comes to
data management, time series
data is often more complex than
just a collection of timestamps,
tags, and values.
It can come in various formats
including tabular or Jason,
often includes textual data, and
schemas might change without
prior notification.
Users oftentimes request a very
long retention period to analyze
patterns over time.
To properly interpret these data
points, contextual information
is required which is usually not
time series data.
This is mainly metadata and
master data of sensors or
assets, enterprise data about
customers or production orders,
as well as external data such as
weather forecasts.
In typical applications, there
is about 90% time series data
and 10% contextual information.
There are many use cases for
time series data that go beyond
just querying and visualizing
the data.
These include applying
statistics and machine learning
for anomaly detection,
forecasting, and predictions.
A rich user experience is
necessary for these
applications.
This includes performant ad hoc
queries that join and correlate
time series with each other as
well as with their contextual
data, full text search
capabilities like fuzzy search
and embeddings, and similarity
search.
To power modern natural language
applications like chat bots, we
want to demonstrate how to build
time series solutions with CrateDB.
This includes working with
various types of data in
addition to traditional time
series data, which is very
important to provide the full
context.
These additional data can be,
for example, master data from
other systems or logs.
The ingest can be done via a
variety of methods like batch
uploading or streaming data in
real time.
Once the data is loaded, you'll
need to model it.
CrateDB allows you to create
tables and schemas that are
ideal for time series data.
When it comes to storing,
querying and analyzing data,
CrateDB is a very good fit as
it is designed as a distributed
database built for handling
large volumes of granular data
in multiple different formats,
tables, time series, Jason based
documents, Geospatial, full text
and vector embeddings.
With CrateDB you can perform
complex queries and aggregations
in real time, which is crucial
for time series analysis.
We will show in the next videos
how to visualize data and how to
efficiently train machine
learning models.
These can be used, for example,
to detect anomalies or forecast
time series into the future.